docs: Added Simple Scalable Deployment  guide for AWS (#14327)
grafana/loki: docs/sources/setup/install/helm/install-scalable/aws.md

    instanceType: m5.xlarge
    desiredCapacity: 3
    minSize: 2
    maxSize: 3
    amiFamily: AmazonLinux2
    iam:
      withAddonPolicies:
        ebs: true
    volumeSize: 80
    volumeType: gp2
    ebsOptimized: true

```

The following plugins are also required to be installed within the EKS cluster:
- Amazon EBS CSI driver
- Amazon EKS Pod Identity Agent
- CoreDNS
- kube-proxy

You must also install an OIDC provider on the EKS cluster. This is required for the IAM roles and policies to work correctly. If you are using EKSctl, you can install the OIDC provider using a command like this:

```bash
eksctl utils associate-iam-oidc-provider --cluster loki --approve
```
**This may be installed by default when creating the EKS cluster using EKSctl.**

## Create an S3 bucket

Before deploying Loki, you need to create an S3 bucket to store the logs. You can create the bucket using the AWS Management Console or the AWS CLI. The bucket name must be globally unique. For this guide, we will use the bucket name `loki-aws-bucket`.

```bash
aws s3api create-bucket --bucket loki-aws-bucket --region eu-west-2 --create-bucket-configuration LocationConstraint=eu-west-2
```

> Make sure to replace the region and bucket name with your desired values. We will revisit the bucket policy later in this guide.

Reviewer: and reiterating, making sure the values used in this doc are claimed by Grafana Labs

    ```bash
    helm install --values values.yaml loki grafana/loki
    ```
    **Note: this may take a few minutes to complete.**

1. Verify the deployment:

    ```bash
    kubectl get pods -n loki
    ```
    You should see the Loki pods running.
    ```console
    NAME                           READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
    loki-backend-0                 2/2     Running   0          43m
    loki-backend-1                 2/2     Running   0          43m
    loki-canary-c7hbw              1/1     Running   0          43m
    loki-canary-wtxb8              1/1     Running   0          43m
    loki-chunks-cache-0            2/2     Running   0          43m
    loki-gateway-844ff6d84-9zg5k   1/1     Running   0          43m
    loki-read-848c686c9d-kd9xt     1/1     Running   0          43m
    loki-read-848c686c9d-vx697     1/1     Running   0          43m
    loki-results-cache-0           2/2     Running   0          43m
    loki-write-0                   1/1     Running   0          43m
    loki-write-1                   1/1     Running   0          43m
    loki-write-2                   1/1     Running   0          43m
    ```
  
### Find the Loki Gateway Service

> To find the Loki Gateway service, run the following command:

Reviewer 2: You can always link to another page which explains the underlying concept.

- **Authentication:** Grafana Loki doesn't come with any included authentication layer. Within the simple scalable mode, the Loki gateway (NGINX) is exposed to the internet. It is advised to add a username and password via the `basicAuth` section in the `values.yaml` file. NGINX can also be replaced with other open-source reverse proxies. Refer to [Authentication]({{< relref "../../../../operations/authentication" >}}) for more information.

- **Retention:** The retention period is set to 28 days in the `values.yaml` file. You may wish to adjust this based on your requirements.

- **Costs:** Running Loki on AWS will incur costs. Make sure to monitor your usage and costs to avoid any unexpected bills. In this guide we have used a simple EKS cluster with 3 nodes and m5.xlarge instances. You may wish to adjust the instance types and number of nodes based on your workload.

- **Guide:** Note that this guide was created on the first `1st of October 2024`. Cloud providers are constantly updating their services and offerings. This may mean that some of the steps require updating.

## Next steps

> If you have successfully deployed Loki in simple scalable mode on AWS, you may wish to explore the following:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Now that you have successfully deployed Loki in simple scalable mode on AWS, you may wish to explore the following:
```

     bucketNames:
       chunks: "<Insert s3 bucket name>" # Your actual S3 bucket name (loki-aws-dev-chunks)
       ruler: "<Insert s3 bucket name>" # Your actual S3 bucket name (loki-aws-dev-ruler)
       # admin: "<Insert s3 bucket name>" # Your actual S3 bucket name (loki-aws-dev-admin) - GEL customers only
     s3:
       region: <Insert s3 bucket region> # eu-west-2
       #insecure: false
     # s3forcepathstyle: false
       
       
 deploymentMode: SimpleScalable

 serviceAccount:
   create: true
   annotations:
     "eks.amazonaws.com/role-arn": "arn:aws:iam::<Account ID>:role/LokiServiceAccountRole" # The service role you created

 backend:
   replicas: 2
   persistence:
     storageClass: gp2
     accessModes:
       - ReadWriteOnce
     size: 10Gi
 read:
   replicas: 2
   persistence:
     storageClass: gp2
     accessModes:
       - ReadWriteOnce
     size: 10Gi
 write:
   replicas: 3
   persistence:
     storageClass: gp2
     accessModes:
       - ReadWriteOnce
     size: 10Gi

 # This exposes the Loki gateway so it can be written to and queried externaly
 gateway:
   service:
     type: LoadBalancer

 # Enable minio for storage
 minio:
   enabled: false
 
```

> {{< admonition type="caution" >}}

Reviewer 4: haha but good.  I've never blindly copypastad something off of a website before. Why are you looking at me like that?

    ```console
    NAME                           READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
    loki-backend-0                 2/2     Running   0          43m
    loki-backend-1                 2/2     Running   0          43m
    loki-canary-c7hbw              1/1     Running   0          43m
    loki-canary-wtxb8              1/1     Running   0          43m
    loki-chunks-cache-0            2/2     Running   0          43m
    loki-gateway-844ff6d84-9zg5k   1/1     Running   0          43m
    loki-read-848c686c9d-kd9xt     1/1     Running   0          43m
    loki-read-848c686c9d-vx697     1/1     Running   0          43m
    loki-results-cache-0           2/2     Running   0          43m
    loki-write-0                   1/1     Running   0          43m
    loki-write-1                   1/1     Running   0          43m
    loki-write-2                   1/1     Running   0          43m
    ```
  
### Find the Loki Gateway Service

The Loki Gateway service is a LoadBalancer service that exposes the Loki gateway to the internet. This is where you will write logs to and query logs from. By default NGINX is used as the gateway.

{{< admonition type="caution" >}}

> The Loki Gateway service is exposed to the internet. It is recommended to secure the gateway with authentication. Refer to the [Authentication]({{< relref "../../../../operations/authentication" >}}) documentation for more information.

Reviewer 4: passive voice.  "We recommend" to secure. 

https://grafana.com/docs/writers-toolkit/write/style-guide/style-conventions/#write-in-active-voice

- **Retention:** The retention period is set to 28 days in the `values.yaml` file. You may wish to adjust this based on your requirements.

- **Costs:** Running Loki on AWS will incur costs. Make sure to monitor your usage and costs to avoid any unexpected bills. In this guide we have used a simple EKS cluster with 3 nodes and m5.xlarge instances. You may wish to adjust the instance types and number of nodes based on your workload.

- **Guide:** Note that this guide was **last updated on 1st October 2024**. As cloud providers frequently update their services and offerings, some steps in this guide may need adjustments over time.

## Next steps

Now that you have successfully deployed Loki in simple scalable mode on AWS, you may wish to explore the following:

> - [Sanding data to Loki]({{< relref "../../../../send-data" >}})

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
- [Sending data to Loki]({{< relref "../../../../send-data" >}})
```

    volumeType: gp2
    ebsOptimized: true

```

The following plugins are also required to be installed within the EKS cluster:
- Amazon EBS CSI Driver: Enables Kubernetes to dynamically provision and manage EBS volumes as persistent storage for applications. We use this to provision the node volumes for Loki.
- Amazon EKS Pod Identity Agent: Manages AWS IAM roles for pods, allowing fine-grained access control to AWS resources without needing to store credentials in containers. This is how Loki will access the S3 bucket.
- CoreDNS: Provides internal DNS service for Kubernetes clusters, ensuring that services and pods can communicate with each other using DNS names. 
- kube-proxy: Maintains network rules on nodes, enabling communication between pods and services within the cluster.

You must also install an OIDC provider on the EKS cluster. This is required for the IAM roles and policies to work correctly. If you are using EKSctl, you can install the OIDC provider using the following command:

```bash
eksctl utils associate-iam-oidc-provider --cluster loki --approve
```
**This may be installed by default when creating the EKS cluster using EKSctl.**

## Create three S3 buckets

> Before deploying Loki, you need to create two S3 buckets; one to store logs (chunks), the second to store alert rules. You can create the bucket using the AWS Management Console or the AWS CLI. The bucket name must be globally unique. For this guide, we will use the bucket names `loki-aws-dev-chunks` and `loki-aws-dev-ruler` **but you should choose your own unique names when creating your own buckets**.

Reviewer: do we own these buckets? if not we need to claim them, or switch these to buckets we do control. we should also make sure those bucket are in `deployment_tools` so we keep them as long as this documentation exists.

being extra cautious to prevent another https://grafana.com/blog/2024/06/27/grafana-security-update-grafana-loki-and-unintended-data-write-attempts-to-amazon-s3-buckets/

Author: Just working with @poyzannur on this. They currently sit in the devrel AWS account but we can get them moved over.

  - The `ruler` section defines the configuration for the ruler, including the S3 bucket region and name. This tells Loki where to store the alert and recording rules.
  - For the full Loki configuration, refer to the [Loki Configuration]({{< relref "../../../../configure" >}}) documentation.

- **Storage:**
  - Defines where the Helm chart stores data.
  - Set the type to `s3` since we are using Amazon S3.
  - Configure the bucket names for the chunks and ruler to match the buckets created earlier.
  - The `s3` section specifies the region of the bucket.

- **Service Account:**
  - The `serviceAccount` section is used to define the IAM role for the Loki service account.
  - This is where the IAM role created earlier is linked.

- **Gateway:**
  - Defines how the Loki gateway will be exposed.
  - We are using a `LoadBalancer` service type in this configuration.

{{< admonition type="warning" >}}
Make sure to replace the placeholders with your actual values.
{{< /admonition >}}

### Deploy Loki

Now that you have created the `values.yaml` file, you can deploy Loki using the Helm chart.

1. Deploy using the newly created `values.yaml` file:

    ```bash

>     helm install --values values.yaml loki grafana/loki -n loki

Reviewer: worth calling out that `-n loki` is creating the loki namespace to install this in? and that's configurable? Also, `--create-namespace` can be added if the namespace doesn't already exist (which I don't think I saw instructions for creating 🤔 )

Author: I had it as a separate step this is way more concise so updated and added a note. I kept it deliberate that they create a Loki namespace as the service account created earlier is only valid for that namespace but that can also be changed
